this is a highly populated part of sri
lanka and during the daytime the crocs
tend to stay hidden at night though they
should show themselves to give them a
little incentive I laid out some chunks
of chicken to entice them out into the
open now that the light's gone we set up
an infrared camera so this can see even
in total darkness by firing out a beam
of infrared light which should be
invisible to the animals more bounce
back off everything we see and this
camera should be able to see everything
in front of us after a few hours of
waiting a burning eye appears
ladies mouths out of the Burrow now
broccoli into the stream it's now sat
and right at the entrance of the Burrow
all that we can see so far is just the
eye shine that all that's exposed about
the surface of the water is the eye and
it's reflecting back light from our
infrared light that we've got on top of
the camera to begin with it's gonna be
very cautious it's gonna be very very
careful that nothing out here is any
danger to it before it emerges and when
it does that I'm really really hoping
it's gonna pick up the scent of our bait
well that was fantastic
just gave a great big blink from the
nictitating membrane that's the third
eyelid which it uses to cover its eye
when it dives you see the eye blinking
both from the side from below and above
that's incredible
I'm gonna get this chunk of meat in on
the string
Johnny can see through his viewfinder
but I don't dare turn on my torch and
spook him I had to rely entirely on
Johnny to let me know what's happening
fishing for mugger crocodiles in the
middle of the night and I can't see
anything at all all I can do is listen
you just moved up with it just made a
full-on bounce at the chicken and is now
waiting on the other side of the stream
again
can you ba can you see close to the
chicken
oh I'm gonna lose my fingers here okay
so he's got ahold of it now I can feel
it just arguing gently on the street I
don't want to make him feel that he
can't take it very very odd no I've got
a crocodile on the end of this line and
I can't see it
I wish I could see what's good although
I can't see anything our bait definitely
seems to be going down a treat and
Johnny get some fantastic footage on the
night camera seeing our mugger
crocodiles snapping down and easy
chicken dinner